# Reading - Class 05

These notes will cover basic workflow principles of React in regards to how to start designing your app as well as what higher order functions are and how they work.

## Thinking in React

1. **What is the `single responsibility principle` and how does it apply to components?** The single responsibility principle dictates that, ideally, a component should only do one thing. In regards to React components, each component should be responsible for one specific functional task and if, when building a component, it begins to grow too large it should be split into smaller subcomponents.

2. **What does it mean to build a ‘static’ version of your application?** A static version of an app renders data to the UI but has no interactivitity - this means that while props will most likely be used to pass information from one component to another, state will not be used since react rerenders when state is updated.

3. **Once you have a static application, what do you need to add?** Once you have a working static application then you can start to add state to the components.

4. **What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state?** 
	- Is it passed in from a parent via props? If so, it probably is not state.
	- Does it remain unchanged over time? If so, it probably is not state.
	- Can you compute it based on any other state or props in your component? If so, it is not state.

5. **How can you identify where state needs to live?**  We should consider the following when trying to identify where state should live:
	- Identify every component that renders something based on that state.

	- Find a common owner component (a single component above all the components that need the state in the hierarchy).

	- Either the common owner or another component higher up in the hierarchy should own the state.

	- If you can’t find a component where it makes sense to own the state, create a new component solely for holding the state and add it somewhere in the hierarchy above the common owner component.

## Higher-Order Functions

1. **What is a “higher-order function”?** Functions that operate on other functions, either by taking them as arguments or by returning them

2. **Explore the `greaterThan` function as defined in the reading. In your own words, what is line 2 of this function doing?** It is returning a fat arrow function that will compare the argument of `greaterThan` to the argument of the returned fat arrow function.

3. **Explain how either `map` or `reduce` operates, with regards to higher-order functions.** Since we know that higher order functions are functions that operate on other functions, either by taking them as arguments or by returning them, then we know that `.map()` is the higher-order function that takes in a callback function as its argument and performs that callback function on every element of an array.

## Things I Want To Know More About

n/a