# Reading Notes - Class 09

These notes will explain ideas behind functional programming such as pure programming as well as briefly cover how to export/import modules.

## [Functional Programming Concepts](https://medium.com/the-renaissance-developer/concepts-of-functional-programming-in-javascript-6bc84220d2aa)

1. **What is functional programming?** Functional programming is a programming paradigm — a style of building the structure and elements of computer programs — that treats computation as the evaluation of mathematical functions and avoids changing-state and mutable data [source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Functional_programming)

2. **What is a pure function and how do we know if something is a pure function?** A pure function is something that will always return the same result if given the same arguments and does not have any observable side effects.

3. **What are the benefits of a pure function?** The code is easier to test since we can have a reliable outcome depending on the parameter(s) being passed in.

4. **What is immutability?** Being immutable basically means being 'unable to change', so immutability describes something's lack of ability to be changed.

5. **What is Referential transparency?** If a function consistently yields the same result for the same input, it is referentially transparent. 

`pure functions + immutable data = referential transparency`

## [Node JS - Modules and require()](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xHLd36QoS4k)

1. **What is a module?** A module is essentially another `.js` file that contains its own information / functionality / classes / etc. that we can export and then import into *another* `.js` file in order to use the information inside of it.

2. **What does the word ‘require’ do?** It allows us to specify a path to another module (`.js` file) in order for us to use that required module's exported data in a different `.js` file.

3. **How do we bring another module into the file the we are working in?** By adding `const varName = require({// path to module})`

4. **What do we have to do to make a module available?** We have to export it by using `module.exports = {// name of thing you want to export}`

## Things I Want To Know More About

- Not a question but the resource for part 1 does not show the code snippets so some of the examples aren't really clear

- 