# Readings - Class 01

These notes will cover what a component is and how they function in regards to developing with React.

## Component-Based Architecture

1. **What is a "component"?** A component is a modular piece of code dedicated to fulfilling a specified job / functionality. 

2. **What are the characteristics if a component?** 
	- Reusability: Typically, components are designed to be reused in different situations in different applications. Sometimes a component may be designed for a specific task
	- Replaceable: May be freely substituted with other similar components
	- Extensible: Can be extended from existing components to provide new behavior
	- Encapsulated: Components depict interfaces, which allow the caller to use its functionality and do not expose details of the internal processes or any internal variables or state
	- Independent: Designed to have minimal dependencies on other components
	- Not Context Specific: Designed to operate in different environments and contexts

3. **What are the advantages of using component-based architecture?**
	- Ease of Deployment: Easier to replace existing versions with no impact on the other components as a whole
	- Ease of Development: Implement interfaces with well-defined functionality, allowing development without impacting other parts of the system
	- Reduced Cost: Use of thrid-party components allows you to spread the cost of development and maintenance
	- Reusable: Components can be used to spread the development and maintenance cost across several applications or systems
	- Reliability: Overall system reliability increases because the reliability of each individual component enhances the reliability of the whole system
	- Independent: Components are developed independent from one another and have flexible connectivity. Effects productivity of software development.
	- Modification of Technical Complexity: Modifies the complexity through the use of a component container and its services.
	- System Maintenance and Evolution: Easy to change and update the implementation without affecting the rest of the system. 

## What is Props and How to Use it in React?

1. **What is "props" short for?** It is short for "properties".

2. **How are props used in React?** Props are used to pass data from one component to another.

3. **What is the flow of props?** Props flow in one direction, "down", from the parent to its children.

## Things I Want To Know More About

- If data flows in one direction how do you structure your app so that a parent is never dependent on the updated state/props of a child?