# Reading - Class 06

These notes will cover the basics of Node.js, how it works, and some of its more common uses as well briefly explain what 'pair programming' is and how it can be helpful to developers.

## Introduction to Node.js

1. **What is node.js?** It is a program that we can use to execute JavaScript on our computers - a JavaScript runtime.

2. **In your own words, what is Chrome’s V8 JavaScript Engine?** It is brain of Chromium-based browsers. It is a collection of libraries and methods that allow these browsers to operate the way that they do and execute JavaScript code. 

3. **What does it mean that node is a JavaScript runtime?** It means that node is a program that is capable of running/executing JavaScript code.

4. **What is npm?** Node Package Manager; It's how developers are able to download / install various JS tools / packages / libraries for their projects.

5. **What version of node are you running on your machine?** 18.12.1

6. **What version of npm are you running on your machine?** 9.2.0

7. **What command would you type to install a library/package called ‘jshint’?** `npm install jshint` OR `npm install -g jshint` to install it globally

8. **What is node used for?** It's used to run various build tools which are designed to automate the process of developing a modern JavaScript application. More commonly, running JavaScript on the server side.

## 6 Reasons for Pair Programming

1. **What are the 6 reasons for pair programming?**
	- Greater Efficiency
	- Engaged Collaboration
	- Learning from Fellow Students
	- Social Skills
	- Job Interview Readiness
	- Work Environment Readiness

2. **In your experience, which of these reasons have you found most beneficial?** Learning from fellow students and social skills, with a little bit of Job Interview / Work Environment readiness thrown in.

3. **How does pair programming work?** When pair programming, both people take one one of two roles: the driver and the navigator. The driver is responsible for typing out the actual code while the navigator is responsible for explaining/defining what code we actually need (i.e. what variables we need, what kind of functions do we need and what should they accomplish, etc.)

## Things I Want To Know More About

- What does "I/O Operation" mean?
