# Reading - Class 12

## [Status Codes Based on REST Methods](https://www.moesif.com/blog/technical/api-design/Which-HTTP-Status-Code-To-Use-For-Every-CRUD-App/)

1. **In your own words, describe what each group of status code represents:**

	- 100's: The server recognizes that there is a request being made and it's going to begin the process of trying to fulfill it. It's like when you go to a drive thru and someone greets you over the speaker. You know something's there but your request still hasn't been processed or fulfilled.

	- 200's: The request was accepted &/o successfully validated. To continue using the drive-thru analogy, your order has been placed and they tell you to drive to the next window. 

	- 300's: The requested resources are no longer where they used to be or where the user expected them to be. The person at the drive thru tells you that they no longer offer a certain product anymore or that they aren't participating in a promotional campaign and you need to go to a different location. 

	- 400's: An invalid request was made from the client to the server. The person ordering food at the drive thru asks for a Big-Mac when they're at KFC.

	- 500's: Something went wrong trying to access the server - it's either offline or overwhelmed and unable to process requests. The drive-thru is closed or for some reason the speaker system is not working.


2. **What is a status code 202?** It means that the request made has been accepted but it is still processing the request and will finish sometime in the future. You've placed your drive-thru order and payed but they are still working on an item, so they tell you to park in front of the McDonalds and that they will bring your order to you when it's ready.

3. **What is a status code 308?** It tells the client that they need to use a different URL than the one that they made a request to. You ask for Szchuan sauce and they tell you this specific McDonalds no longer offers it but you can go to the one on the other side of town if you want some.

4. **What code would you use if an update didn’t return data to a client?** 204 

5. **What code would you use if a resource used to exist but no longer does?** 410

6. **What is the ‘Forbidden’ status code?** 403


## [Build a REST API with Node.js, Express, & MongoDB - Quick](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCFbNIlppjAuEX4znoulh0Cw)

1. **Why do we need to pull our MongoDB database string out of our server and put it into our .env?** 
	- So that we have one place that we can reference for our database, that way if we need to change that url for whatever reason we can just change it in the `.env` file and it will affect every place that it is being referenced.
	- So that when we push our server & database to production, our database url isn't exposed to unwanted parties

2. **What is middleware?** Code that runs when the server gets the request but before it gets passed to the routes

3. **What does `app.use(express.json())` do?** It allows our server to accept `.json` files as a body of our HTTP requests

4. **What does the `/:id` mean in a route?** It is a parameter for an ID of a MongoDB document that we use when we want to specify one specific thing instead of all the things.

5. **What is the difference between `PUT` and `PATCH`?** Patch updates only the information of a model/entry/document that is specified by the user/client whereas Put would update all of the information of a model/entry/document even if only there was partial new data being sent.

6. **How do you make a default value in a schema?** By using the keyword/object property "default" and then giving it whatever value you want.

7. **What does a 500 error status code mean?** That there was some kind of error with the server and that there was no issue on the client side.

8. **What is the difference between a status 200 and a status 201?** A status 200 is a general "everything was successful" code whereas a 201 is meant to say "successfully created an object" - it's a more specific version of status 200.


## Things I Want To Know More About

- What is a header in regards to HTTP requests?