# Event Driven Applications

## [Event Driven Programming](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/nodejs-event-driven-programming)

1. **What native Node.js module allows us to get started with Event Driven Programming?**
- The `events` module allows us access to `EventEmitter`

2. **What is the value of Object Oriented Programming used in tandem with Event Driven Programming?** 
- When we register event listeners & emitters to trigger on certain "Object.methods", we reduce the complexity of object interaction. Rather than on object needing to reach inside another object to trigger a function, our objects can just emit events and whichever objects are listening to those event will process it in the way they have been told to. The source of an objects behavior is now entirely contained within itself, rather than needing to be accessed by external objects.

3. **Consider your knowledge of Event Driven Programming in the Web Browser, now explain to a non-technical friend how Event Driven Programming might be useful on the backend using Node.js.**
- Without using event-driven programming, when objects needs to talk to each other it's like in a game of 'telephone'. One object has to send a message to another object, who then might relay that message to another object, etc. Let's say, something funny happens at the school you and your sibling attend. You tell your sibling about it during lunch, and then your sibling tells your mom about it when they get home, and then your mom tells your dad about after she drops you sibling off at soccer practice. That information has to pass through multiple "objects". When we use event-driven programming it's like if everybody (read: 'object') had their own cell phone which allows for more direct communication. Now, when something funny happens at your school you can text/call your dad directly.


## Additional Questions

1. **Looking ahead at this module’s course schedule, What do you look forward to learning?** 
- I'd say learning about network events and message queues sounds pretty useful / interesting.

2. **What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?**
- In addition to everything I've talked about in the past, I think being able to implement some kind of real-time chat functionality or direct-messaging capabilities in future projects would be a really cool and have real-world implications.

## Things I Want To Know More About
- Do event listeners / emitters typically live soley in back end modules? Can they be used in front end modules? Does it matter?