# Advanced State with Reducers

## [Extracting State Logic into a Reducer](https://react.dev/learn/extracting-state-logic-into-a-reducer)

1. **What is the motivation for adding a reducer?**
- To keep the complexity of a component and its state logic to a minimum which makes it easier to read and easier to maintain.

2. **What are actions in the context of a reducer? How are they different than setting state directly?**
- Actions are effectively like events. The action is basically saying 'Hey, this "add" event just happened and here are some extra parameters relevant to the action. Take these parameters and modify state accordingly'.
- This is different than setting state directly because we're not calling the relevant "setState" hook - but rather dispatching an "event" which the reducer listens for, and takes the action object and passes that information into the reducer which then in turn invokes the "setState" hook.

3. **What common list operation is useReduce named for, and why?**
- `useReduce` is named after the `reduce()` array method. The `reduce()` array method takes the *result so far* and the *current item*, then it returns the *next result*. `useReduce()` follows the same idea: it takes the *state so far* and the *action*, and then returns the *next state*. In this way, they accumulate actions over time into state.

4. **When should you switch from useState to useReducer?**
- You should use a reducer if you often encounter bugs due to incorrect state updates in some component and want to introduce more structure to the code. You do not need to use reducers for everything - you can mix and match and even use `useState` and `useReducer` in the same component.

### Key Takeaways:
- Now the event handlers only specify *what happened* by dispatching actions, and the reducer function determines *how the state updates* in response to them.

- **Code size**: Generally, with `useState` you have to write less code upfront. With `useReducer`, you have to write both a reducer function and dispatch actions. However, `useReducer` can help cut down on the code if many event handlers modify state in a similar way.

- **Readability**: `useState` is very easy to read when the state updates are simple. When they get more complex, they can bloat your component’s code and make it difficult to scan. In this case, `useReducer` lets you cleanly separate the how of update logic from the what happened of event handlers.

- **Debugging**: When you have a bug with `useState`, it can be difficult to tell where the state was set incorrectly, and why. With `useReducer`, you can add a console log into your reducer to see every state update, and why it happened (due to which `action`). If each `action` is correct, you’ll know that the mistake is in the reducer logic itself. However, you have to step through more code than with `useState`.

- **Testing**: A reducer is a pure function that doesn’t depend on your component. This means that you can export and test it separately in isolation. While generally it’s best to test components in a more realistic environment, for complex state update logic it can be useful to assert that your reducer returns a particular state for a particular initial state and `action`.

- **Personal preference**: Some people like reducers, others don’t. That’s okay. It’s a matter of preference. You can always convert between `useState` and `useReducer` back and forth: they are equivalent!

- **Reducers must be pure.** Similar to [state updater functions](https://react.dev/learn/queueing-a-series-of-state-updates), reducers run during rendering! (Actions are queued until the next render.) This means that reducers [must be pure](https://react.dev/learn/keeping-components-pure)—same inputs always result in the same output. They should not send requests, schedule timeouts, or perform any side effects (operations that impact things outside the component). They should update [objects](https://react.dev/learn/updating-objects-in-state) and [arrays](https://react.dev/learn/updating-arrays-in-state) without mutations.

- **Each action describes a single user interaction, even if that leads to multiple changes in the data.** For example, if a user presses “Reset” on a form with five fields managed by a reducer, it makes more sense to dispatch one `reset_form` action rather than five separate `set_field` actions. If you log every action in a reducer, that log should be clear enough for you to reconstruct what interactions or responses happened in what order. This helps with debugging!

## Reflection

1. **What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?**
- How to implement a reducer within the RESTy project to make api calls (which im assuming is what todays lab will be about)

## Things I Want To Know More About
- n/a