# Ethics In Tech

## Ethics in the Workplace
[Article - Google & AI](https://gizmodo.com/in-reversal-google-says-its-ai-will-not-be-used-for-we-1826649327)

The Code of Ethics explicitly talks about using tech to create things that are beneficial to society and that do not cause harm on any people / persons. Although this article is nearly 5 years old, I think that the criticisms of Google's involvement are completely valid. A lot of what these Google representatives said in defense of their involvement with Project Maven seems like PR, surface level lip-service to try and keep the heat off their back. They are one of the most powerful tech companies in the world and they should be drawing clear lines in the sand in regards to their ethics as a company. Even if the tech that Google develops did not *directly* play a part in something like creating autonomous weapons and algorithmic drone strikes they should be able to see that the work that they do for the Department of Defense can potentially be studied / re-engineered to create something dangerous. A lot of modern-day items &/o technology - for example, memory foam - can be attributed to studies from NASA in their quest for space exploration. While memory foam is completely different than an autonomous weapons system, I don't think it's too far fetched to say that sometimes things are created/invented as an indirect consequence of another action. In this case, I think the same kind of logic can be applied to Google and Project Maven - that just beacuse they may not be *directly* tied to creating these AI-powered weapons doesn't necessarily mean that they aren't in some way possibly contributing to their creation. Obviously, this is why these kinds of discussions need to be had and the tech leaders need to take this seriously. I think a lot of this rationale can be applied to the current state of AI in 2023 as well. I'm not insisting on casting AI tech into the fires of Mt. Doom but I do think there are many more conversations to be had about ethics and AI.


## Ethics in Technology
[Article - Will Democracy Survive Big Data and AI?](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/will-democracy-survive-big-data-and-artificial-intelligence/)
- This article heavily surrounds the ethical tenants of benefitting the public good and providing an overall boon to society. I think it's a very optimisitic, and maybe somewhat naive, way of looking at things to assume that autonomous cars will somehow be a step closer towards some kind of utopia. Sure, a *properly-programmed* autonomous car will always have better reaction time than a human - but how do we ensure that the car's AI systems are infallible? This article was written in 2018, and even with the state of AI in 2023, it's good at some things but it's not always perfect. These systems need to be absolutely perfect before we put our full trust into them - otherwise we have more incidents like [this one](https://abc7news.com/tesla-sf-bay-bridge-crash-8-car-self-driving-video/12686428/) to look forward to. Additionally, the article asserts that passengers are 'likely to have more choice over vehicle settings, preferences, and routes' which I think is grossly naive - that part really hit a nerve for me. They describe a world where you can hire an AI car whenever you need one as if this imaginative AI-Uber isn't going to be wrought with surcharges and hidden fees. "Oh, you need to be picked up in 20minutes? Well, sorry we're all busy right now but if you pay for our monthly fast-pass service then you can jump the queue! Only $29.99 a month and you have to lock in for a full year. If you try to cancel early then you need to pay a $50 cancellation fee as well." If human-driven cars ceased to exist and there were nothing but autonomous options, the people with the least amount of money and resources would be left with the crummiest of options. This kind of mentality is so far removed from the realities of our current economic system it's baffling - and of course it's always pitched by the people who aren't struggling and aren't suffering from the oppresive grasp of poverty. People need to stop thinking that AI will magically transport us to some Jetson's-esque utopia and see the very real implications that it will only create a deeper divide between the haves and the have-nots without propery scrutiny and regulations.