# Redux - Combined Reducers

## [Multiple Reducers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gBER4Or86hE)

1. **Why create multiple reducers?**
- Because it's a lot easier to maintain multiple reducers rather than one giant reducer.

2. **How would you combine multiple reducers?**
- By using the `.combineReducer()` method

3. **How will you manage state as an immutable object? why?**
- By always modifying the entire state object instead of just a single property on state. For example:
```
// this is incorrect
state.property = value;

// this is correct
state = {...state, property: value}
```
- We do this because if we modify a single property instead of the whole state object there can be unwanted side effects with the state.

## [Using Combined Reducers](https://redux.js.org/recipes/structuring-reducers/using-combinereducers/)

1. **`combineReducers` is a utility function to simplify the most common use case when writing ___ _____ .**
- Redux reducers

2. **Explain how `combineReducers` assembles the new state tree.**
- When an action is dispatched, `combineReducers` calls each reducer wrapped within the combineReducer object, using each reducer's state and the current action - this gives each *slice reducer* the ability to update their respective states.

3. **How would you define initial state in an app using `combineReducers`?**
- Each slice reducer would have their respective initial states defined, along with their own reducer method.
- Then, each slice reducer would be used as a property in the object that `combineReducers` takes as an argument.
For example:
```
const reducerA = (initialStateA, action) => {
  // reducer body goes here
}

const reducerB = (initialStateB, action) => {
  // reducer body goes here
}

const bigReducer = combineReducers({
  reducerA,
  reducerB,
})

```

## [Combined Reducer Syntax](https://redux.js.org/api/combinereducers/)

1. **Why will you want to split your reducing functions as your app becomes more complex?**
- Because having multiple `combineReducers` will make it easier to manage and maintain independent parts of the state

2. **The _____ helper function turns an object whose values are different reducing functions into a single reducing function you can pass to ____.**
- `combineReducers`
- `createStore`

3. **What is a popular convention when naming reducers?**
- To name the reducers after the state slices that they manage
- For example, if your reducer is managing your `todo` state then you name the reducer `todo`.

## Things I Want To Know More About
- For large, complex apps - what things should I keep in mind when deciding what reducers should be combined? What are some signs that I should start to split a single `combineReducers` into multiple `combineReducers`?
