# Authentication

## [Securing Passwords](https://thehackernews.com/2014/04/securing-passwords-with-bcrypt-hashing.html)

1. **Explain to a non-technical friend how you would safely hash and store a password:**
- Hashing is basically like translating your password into an new, 'alien' language. The computer takes your regular, human-language, password and runs it through an algorithm so that now the letter 'a' is represented in the alien language by '38MU', the number '1' is represented by 'J8FA', etc. So now, if anyone were to ever view the database of passwords they would be in that 'alien language' instead of a human langauge - which makes storing passwords much more secure against any potential malicious activity.

2. **What is Bcrypt?**
- The are various types of hashing algorithms, Bcrypt is one of them and is one of the stronger methods of hashing.

3. **Why might you using something like Bcrypt?**
- Bcrypt makes use of a `work factor` which can determine how slow the hash function will be - meaning that different work factors will generate different hash values in different time spans, making it extremely resistant to brute force attacks.

## [Basic Auth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication)

1. **What is Basic Authentication**
- A way for HTTP requests to contain a `username` and `password`

2. **What properties are necessary in the header of a Basic Auth request**
- The username and password combined with a single color (e.g. `username:password`)

3. **How are `username:password` in Basic Auth encoded?**
- They are encoded using a variant of Base64

## [OWASP Auth Cheatsheet](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Authentication_Cheat_Sheet)

1. **Define the authentication process to a non-technical recruiter**
- A very simple analogy would be to say that authentication on the web is like showing your id to buy/order alcohol. Imagine you're sitting at a restaurant and you tell the waiter/waitress you'd like to order a beer - this is the request. The waiter/waitress then needs to verify that you are who you say you are. Does your face match the photo on your driver's license (i.e. is your username valid)? Are you old enough to drink (i.e. is your password valid)? If the waiter/waitress successfully verifies your credentials, then your request can go through and you can get access to alcholic drinks.

2. **How should your error messaging respond (both HTTP and HTML)? Why?**
- Error messaging should be generic because if you give detailed information about *why* a authentication request has failed it can help point malicious users in the right direction of successfully cracking your password.

3. ~~**Bookmark this link**~~

## Additional Questions

1. **Looking ahead at this module's course schedule, what do you look forward to learning?**
- Headers in requests, still a little cloudy on what they are / how they work / how we use them. 
- Role Based Access Control

2. **What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?**
- Fully understand Authentication and Authorization & how to implement them into a project.
- Be able to explain Stacks & Queues as if explaining to a non-tech person
- Be able to use & understand the basics of AWS
- Be able to use React functional components & hooks
- Understand React Redux and React Native

## Things I Want To Know More About
- Are BCrypt and PBKDF2 hashing algorithm the standard? From this article, it seems like they are the more 'secure' method so are there any pros/cons to using these algorithms as opposed to the other ones mentioned (MD5, SHA1, SHA256, SHA512, SHA-3)?