# React: `useState()` Hook

## [Thinking In React](https://react.dev/learn/thinking-in-react)

1. **Summarize the five steps of thinking in React:**

  - *Break the UI into a component hierarchy.* 
    - Visually mock up what you want your website/app/ui to look like. Wrap things in boxes to visually represent the bounds/size of a component. Think about *what* you want your components to accomplish (programming), and *how* they are going to be styled(css selectors and overall design)

  - *Build a static version in React* 
    - Build a version of the app that renders the bare minimum amount of information to the screen. This gives you the chance to start thinking about how `props` and `state` of each component will work and how data will be passed from one component to another.

  - *Find the minimal but complete representation of UI state* 
    - Now you can start hard-coding in better representations of the data that you need each component to render. In this step, we want to start identifying what is and what is not `state` of a component. 
      - If it **remains unchanged** over time, it IS NOT state.
      - If the data is **passed in from a parent via props**, it IS NOT state.
      - If you **can compute it** based on existing `state` or `props` of the component, it IS NOT state.

- *Identify where your state should live*
  - Figure out what component is responsible for changing the state. Since React uses one-way data flow from parent to child we can use this as a guide to help us figure that out. For example, if multiple child components are having information passed down for their parent component then the parent component should probably manage/own the state and pass that information down via props / hooks.

- *Add inverse data flow*
  - Remember that hooks have two parts: the name of the hook, and the method that we call in order to change the value of the hook. 
  ```const [hookName, setHookValue] = useState(initialHookValue)```
  - In  order to *change* the value we need to pass down the `setHookValue` function and call that in the appropriate place within the child component. This way, when the data is changed in the *child* component the data will be sent back up to the *parent* component.
 
## [State: A Component's Memory](https://react.dev/learn/state-a-components-memory)

1. **What is one reason a local variable isn't sufficient for managing a React component?**
- Local variables do not persist between renders and they do not trigger re-renders.

2. **What is the argument to the `useState` hook, and what are the two parts of it's return array?**
- The argument to `useState` is the initial value
- The two parts of the return array are the state variable and the state setter function.

3. **How can Component A access state from Component B?**
- Component B would need to be the parent to Component A so that Component B could pass data via props to Component A.

## Reflection

1 **What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?** I'm realizing that I need to deepen my understanding of how to determine what is and what isn't state and spend more time determining the component hierarchy when working in React.

## Things I Want To Know More About
- n/a