# Bearer Authorization

## [Intro to JWT(JSON Web Tokens)](https://jwt.io/introduction/)

1. **What is a JSON Web Token?** 
- JSON Web Tokens are compact, URL-safe means of representing claims to be transferred between two parties. The claims in a JWT are encoded as a JSON object that is used as the payload of a JSON Web Signature (JWS) structure or as the plaintext of a JSON Web Encryption (JWE) structure, enabling the claims to be digitall signed or integrity protected wit ha Message Authentication Code (MAC) &/o encrypted. [source](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7519)

2. **When should we use JSON Web Tokens?**
- **Authorization** - This is the most common scenario. Once a user is logged in, each subsequent request will include the JWT which allow the user to acces routes, services, and resources that are permitted with that token. *Single Sign On* is a feature that widely uses JWT nowadays, because of its small overhead and its ability to be easily used across different domains.
- **Information Exchange** - Securly transmit information between parties. Since JWTs can be signed - for example, using public/private key pairs - you can be sure the senders are who they say they are. Additionally, the signature is calcualted using the header and the payload and therefore you can verify that the content hasn't been tampered with.

3. **Claims are expected in which structural component of a JWT?**
- Claims are expected in the *payload* of the JWT

## [Are JWTs Secure?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/27301557/if-you-can-decode-jwt-how-are-they-secure)

1. **If I get a JWT and I can decode the payload, how can we call that secure?** 
- Because the signature is hashed using a `secret` that a third-party should not know, and therefore that third-party won't be able to successfully intercept & modify the original JWT.

2. **If sending a JWT, what must sender and receiver both know? Hint, it’s appended in the signature.**
- The `secret`

3. **Explain how concatenated content and secret can be sent and received securely to a non-technical recruiter.**
- Imagine you're holding a solved rubiks cube that has some kind of message written on it - we'll say this is the *content*. Then you start to mix up the rubik's cube so that it looks seemingly random but you are actually writing down all of the steps you took to mix it up in that specific way. The rubik's cube has now been "encrypted".

- Now, you want to give the rubik's cube to your friend - but you and your friend have previously agreed that if you guys ever exchange rubik's cubes you have to say the *secret* word, "banana", to the other person; Otherwise, they can't trust you and they won't accept the rubik's cube.

- So, you hand the rubik's cube to your friend and say the *secret* word, "banana". They accept the rubik's cube and you tell them to change it back to it's original state and they use the directions you wrote down to solve the rubik's cube. It has now been successfully "decrypted" and they can read the original message/content.

- Now let's say, before you're able to hand the rubik's cube to your friend, your younger sibling comes running by and swipes the cube from your hand. And since they're you're younger sibling, they try to mess with your stuff. They mix up the rubik's cube even further and then try to hand it off to your friend. But since you and your friend know the *secret* word, your friend does not accept the rubiks cube and your sibling
s request gets rejected.

## [JWTs Explained](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=926mknSW9Lo)

1. **Why use JWT?**
- Because it is Digitally Signed - meaning that the information is verified and trusted and there is no aalteration of data in between the transfer.

2. **JWT is Compact and self-contained. Describe how this is useful to a non-technical friend.**
- JWT being compact means its faster to use / verify and being self-contained means all the relevant information we need to authenticate a user is right there in the token.
- Think about using your driver's license as a way to identify yourself vs. having to provide your birth certificate, social-security card, and paystub with a valid address, etc.
- If you're at a restaurant and you want to order a beer it's a lot more efficient to show them your driver's license to verify yourself because all your relevant information is right there on the card. 
- As opposed to having to whip out your birth certificate and 2 forms of id where they would have to cross-reference each piece of identification to make sure that you are who you say you are - that would be an incredibly annoying process for both you and the waiter/waitress.

3. **What are the three components (the structure) of a JWT signature?**
- The encoded header, the encoded payload, and the secret are the three components of a JWT signature. These compoentns are are then encoded once more as a whole to form the signature.

## Reflection

1. **What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?**
- I want to be able to successfully implement these authentication methods within my own projects as well as better understand headers in requests - which I think I'm starting to grasp a little bit better.

## Things I Want To Know More About
- Are JWTs always encoded using a specific algorithm or is that up to the developer? 
  - If there isn't standard encoding algorithm used for all JWTs, how do sender/receivers know the proper way to decode the JWT?