# Socket.io

## [Web Sockets](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebSocket)

1. What is a Web Socket?
- A Web Socket is a computer communications protocol

2. Describe the Web Socket request/response handshake and what happens once the connection is established.
- The handshake starts with an HTTP request/response which allows the servers to handle HTTP connections and WebSocket connections on the same port. Once connection is established, communication switches to WebSocket protocol which is bidirectional and does not conform to the HTTP protocol.

3. Web Sockets provide a standardized way for the server to send content to a client without first receiving a ____ from that client.
- Request

## [Socket.io Tutorial](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/socket.io/)

1. What does the event handler `io.on()` do?
- It listens for an event and then performs a callback function when that event occurs. It handles connection, disconnection, etc.
```
io.on('connection', () => {//callback function stuff goes here})
```

2. Describe some possible proof of life or proof that the code works as expected?
- We can run something like `io.on('connection', () => {console.log('User connected')})` so that we get some feedback when certain events happen.

3. What does `socket.emit()` do?
- It allows us to create our own custom events that can be listened to with `io.on()`

## [Socket.io vs. Web Sockets](https://www.educba.com/websocket-vs-socket-io/)

1. What is the difference between WebSocket and Socket.IO? (think Git and GitHub, or OAuth and Auth0).
- `WebSocket` is the communications protocol that allows bidirectional communcation between a Client and a Server over a TCP connection.
- `Socket.IO` is a library that helps to facilitate real-time communication between the Client and Servers. It uses WebSocket protocol to provide that interface.

2. When would you use Socket.IO?
- Whenever you establish a connnection via WebSockets, Socket.IO is a helpful library that can be used to make working with WebSockets easier.

3. When would you use WebSockets?
- Whenever you need/want to establish bidiretional, real time, communication between client and server

## [OSI Model Explained](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vv4y_uOneC0)

1. What are a couple of key takeaways from this video?
- All applications require network protocols that are inherited from OSI
- The presentation layer translates, compresses, and encrypts/decrypts data
- The session layer is the layer of OSI that handles Authentication & Authorization.
- The session layer keeps track of the information being requested / sent in the form of data packets.
- The transport layer handles segmentation, flow control, error control
  - Segmentation breaks down data into smaller, easier to handle bits
  - Flow control helps to adjust connection speeds so that no data is loss
- TCP vs. UDP
  - UDP is used when it does not matter if there is a loss in data transfer
  - TCP is used when IT DOES matter if there is a loss in data, and it keeps track of that data so it can be re-sent if not received by the client.
- The network layer handles logical addressing, routing, and path determination
- The data link layer receives data packets from the network layer and requires the MAC address of both client and server 
  - The data link layer allows access to media as well as how it is placed and received
- The physical layer converts binary sequences into a 'signal' and then converts that into the media that we see.

## [TCP Handshakes Explained](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xMtP5ZB3wSk)

1. Translate the gist of this video to a non-technical friend
- TCP is a way for two computers to be able to talk / interact with each other in real time. In order to do this, they must perform a "three-way handshake". 

- It's kind of like when you're on a Zoom call and you have that exchange of "Hey, I can hear you. Can you hear me?" with the other participants.

- The first step of that threeway handshake is the Client going "Hey, is my mic working? Can you hear me?". They are attempting to synchronize / connect.

- The next step is the Server saying "Yeah, I can hear you. Can you hear me?" They acknowledge the synchronization / connection attempt.

- And the final step is the Client responding, "Yeah, I can hear you. Awesome!" They acknowledge that everything is working fine and now you can move forward with your Zoom call.

## Reflection

1. I want to be able to create a simple little messaging system using Socket.IO which I think should be pretty doable since that was a feature of the 301 final project I was a part of although I didn't build it.

## Things I Want To Know More About

- The OSI video seemed like it had a lot of good information about what happens behind the scenes with web requests and I would love to delve into that a little bit more. Not necessarily a question, I know lol.