# Data Modeling

## [nosql vs sql](https://www.thegeekstuff.com/2014/01/sql-vs-nosql-db/?utm_source=tuicool)

1. **What type of database is the best fit for the complex query intensive environment?**
- SQL Databases

2. **What type of database is the best fit for hierarchical data storage?**
- NoSQL Databases

3. **Describe the differences in scalability between a SQL and NoSQL database as though you were speaking to a non-technical friend.**
- SQL databases are typically vertically scalable which means that when you want to expand your database you can just *stack* more and more processing power or storage space on top of your server. Imagine you have a bunch of literal blocks and as you stack those blocks higher and higher up, the more powerful and capable your database becomes.

- NoSQL databases are horizontally scalable, which means that when you want to expand your database you just add more server's *next* to the existing one(s). Instead of stacking blocks higher and higher, you place them side by side.


## [sql modeling techniques](https://www.essentialsql.com/get-ready-to-learn-sql-7-simplified-data-modeling/)

1. **Among data tables, what is a one-to-many relationship and how do we “relate” them?**
- One-to-many relationships describe how the an entry in one table can be related to one or more entries in another table and we relate them using a foreign key.

2. **Prior to designing your relational database, it might be useful to ___ a ___ of the database tables and their relationships.**
- It might be useful to *design* a *diagram* of the database tables and their relationships.


3. **Explain the difference between a primary and foreign key.**
- Primary keys are the what identify the individual rows of a table while foreign keys are what's used to match one table to another table.


## [sql vs nosql](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZS_kXvOeQ5Y)

1. **How do we treat keywords and parameters differently in SQL syntax?**
- Keywords are how SQL knows what kind of operations to perform while the parameters identify what information we want to create/read/update/delete within a table.

2. **Define normalization within the context of schemas and data.**
- Normalization refers to how we format the data for our tables so that every entry within a table conforms to the same schema. If a table has columns for `id`, `name`, `color` then every row within that table should have data for `id`, `name`, and `color`.

3. **Explain the difference between one-to-one, one-to-many, and many-to-many relationships to a non-technical recruiter.**
- Imagine you're a teacher and you have two tables of data: `Students` and `Grades`. The `Students` table has columns labeled `id`, `lastName`, and `firstName` and every row within that table represents each student in your class. The `Grades` table has columns labeled `student_id`, `assignment1`, `assignment2`, `assignment3`, etc. and each row represents a student and their grades on each assignment. The `student_id` of the `Grades` table relates to the `id` of the `Students` table - one *id number* from a table directlys relates to a whole row within the next table. This is a one-to-one relationship between SQL tables.

- Now imagine a similar situation as above but this time you're an art teacher running an after school painting club. Instead of a `Grades` we have a `Paintings` table that keeps record of every painting made by the students. The `Paintings` table has columns labeled `id`, `title`, `description`, and `artist_id`. The `artist_id` directly relates to the `id` within the `Students` table, but each student can have multiple paintings that relate to that student. This is a one-to-many relationship between SQL tables.

- Say we the tables, `Students` and `Clubs`, and the `Clubs` table has columns like `id`, `name`, `description`, etc. Since a student can be in as many clubs as they want to, we can create a third table called `Student Clubs` which can hold things like `student_id` and `club_id` and these fields would directly relate to the `id` within the `Students` table as well as the `id` within the `Clubs` table, respectively. This is the many-to-many relationship between SQL tables.


## Things I Want To Know More About
- When is it better to use vertically scalability vs horizontally scalability?