# Context API - Behaviors

## [Scaling Up with Reducer and Context](https://react.dev/learn/scaling-up-with-reducer-and-context)

1. **How do useReducer and useContext work together to simplify state management in a React application? (At least two paragraphs of prose.)**
- Without the Context API, we have to pass the "reducer-state" and the "reducer-dispatcher" down through the it's children. While this might be fairly simple when there's only a few components it can become very tedious and difficult to management when there is an increase in components. In order to circumvent this issue, we can pass the reducer into context which will allow all child components to access the reducer-state and the reducer-dispatcher without the need of prop-drilling. Furthermore, we can put this data into a separate module to make our components easier to ready and manage.
- First we need to create the Context. We can create two separate Contexts for the reducer-state and the reducer-dispatcher. When we create these, we can initialize them with a value of `null`, import them into a separate module, and then create the *provider* and supply it with the values we want our providers to provide to the child components. Once we have our providers wrapped around the child components, the child components are now free to access the reducer through Context - we no longer have to prop drill!
- If we want to further declutter our components, we can also create the provider inside of the Context module. That way, instead of exporting Context's with a value of `null` and then creating the *providers* in a separate module - we can just create the context provider in our Context module, pass in `{children}`, and then export the providers to our parent component. 


## Things I Want To Know More About
- n/a