# Hash Table Cheat Sheet

## What is a Hash Table?
- Hash tables are essentially giant arrays that can store a `key/value` pair within each index of the array.
---
## How do they work?
- Hash tables take the `key` of a `key/value` pair and run it through a hashing algorithm, which returns a hash (read: integer value). That hash is used to identify the index in which the `key/value` pair will be stored within the hash table (read: array).
---
## Vocabulary

### Hash
- The result of some hashing algorithm. 
  - The algorithm takes a string (e.g. the `key` of a `key/value` pair) and converts that to a integer value. The resulting integer value is the `hash`.

### Buckets
- How we refer to the "container" within the hash table at every index value - meaning that each index is a bucket. These buckets can hold multiple values *if* multiple `key/value` pairs end up with the same `hash` value.

### Collisions
- This is what happens when multiple `key/value` pairs evaluate to the same `hash` value. 
- *How to handle collisions will be covered further down the page*

---
## Why Use A Hash Table?

- Without using a hash table, we would have to iterate through the array until we found `key/value` pair that we are looking for - which would be `O(n)` efficiency.
- Using a hash table allows us to read a value from an array in `O(1)` time. This is because when he have a `hash` value, we know the exact index of the array that we need to access which means no longer have to iterate through the array to find our data.
---
## Basic Hashing Algorithm Example

- Add or multiple all of the ASCII values of the `key` string together
- Multiply it by a prime number, such as 599
- Use modulo to get the raiminder of the result when divided by the total size of the array
- Insert the `key/value` pair into the array at that index/hash value
---
## Handling Collisions

- In a perfect situation, the hash table and the hashing algorithm will never result in a collision. However, we still need to have a plan for these collisions just in case.

- Because of this potential outcome, each bucket should hold the `key/value` pairs in the form of a linked-list. That way, if there every is a `collision` the colliding `key/value` pair can be set as the next value of the linked list.

- For example `hashTable[6] = {key: value} --> {key2: value2} --> {key3: value3}`
---
## Hash Table Size

- Hash tables can have any number of buckets but the more buckets it contains the less likely there will be collisions.
---
## Hash Table Methods

### set()

When adding a new key/value pair to a hashtable:

- send the key to the hash() method.
- Once you determine the index of where it should be placed, go to that index
- Check if something exists at that index already, if it doesn’t, add it with the key/value pair.
- If something does exist, add the new key/value pair to the data structure within that bucket.

### get(key)

- Takes in a key, gets the Hash, and goes to the index location specified. Once at the index location is found in the array, it is then the responsibility of the algorithm the iterate through the bucket and see if the key exists and return the value.

### has(key)

- Takes in a key, and return a bool on if that key exists inside the hashtable. The best way to do this is to have the contains call the `hash()` method and check the hashtable if the key exists in the table given the index returned.

### keys()
- Returns a collection (array) of unique hash keys.

### hash(key)
- Takes a key as a string, conduct the hash, and then return the index of the array where the key/value should be place