# Express, NPM, TDD, CI/CD

## NodeJS and Express

1. **Explain middleware, answer as though I were a non-technical recruiter.**

Imagine you order a burger at a restuarant and for whatever reason there's an assembly line of people that create your burger. The very first person in that line receives the order-ticket from the front of the restuarant and the last person puts the finished burger on the plate and sends it back to you. Middleware would be all the extra people in between - one person is responsible for getting the buns, one person gets the patty, another person adds the cheese, etc. Each piece of middleware is responsible for doing *something* which contributes to the end result that we send back to the user.

2. **Express the most popular __ __ ____.**

Node web framework.

3. **Express is “unopinionated.” What does that mean?**

An *opinionated* framework has a 'correct way' to use it's components and handle tasks, almost like using a template. It has an "opinion" about how things should be done.

Therefore, an *unopinionated* framework is the opposite. It's more flexible and developers can decide what components they want to string together in order to accomplish any given task. It has no "opinions" about how you should do things.

4. **What is a module and why is modularity useful to us as developers?**

A module is just a JavaScript library/file that can be imported & exported. Separating our code into different modules makes it easier to manage. Instead of having one giant `.js` file that contains everything and is responsible for doing everything, we would have smaller pieces that would have their own individual responsibilities that can come together to create one whole thing.

## What is NPM? (Node Package Manager)

1. **What version of npm are you running on your machine?**

9.2.0

2. **What command would you type to install a library/package called ‘jshint’ into your node project?**

`npm install jshint` or `npm i jshint`

## What is TDD? (Test-Drive Development)

1. **Explain why tests are important. Please explain as though I were your non technical elder.**

The reason testing is important in coding is similar to the reason why 'measure twice, cut once' is important in carpentry. When you build something with wood, we need to ensure that all the pieces fit together correctly so we're not being wasteful of time or resources, and we also want to ensure that the thing we're making doesn't fall apart or break when it's being used. When we write code we want to make sure that the thing we build is created in such a way that all the pieces of code fit together and that nothing breaks or falls apart when it's being used.

2. **What are three expected benefits of testing**

- Significant reduction in defect rates at the cost of a moderate increase in initial development effort
- These increased intial efforts are offset by a reduction in effort during the final phase(s)
- Improved design qualities in the code. Generally a higher degree of 'internal' or technical quality.

3. **Name at lest 2 individual pitfalls and at least 2 team pitfalls commonly encountered while writing tests.**

- Individual
	- Forgetting to run tests frequently
	- Writing too many tests at once
- Team
	- Partial adoptions (only some of the devs on the team are using tests)
	- Poor maintenance of the test suite

## Continuous Integration / Continuous Delivery

**Video link no longer works, says that the video is unavailable because the uploader has closed their YouTube account**

1. **What are three benefits of Continuous Integration?**

- Smaller Code Changes.
	- Allows you to integrate small pieces of code at one time. Changes are simpler and easier to handle than huge chunks of code and have fewer issues that may need to be repaired at a later date.  

- Fault Isolations
	- Systems are designed in such a way that when an error occurs, the negative outcomes are limited in scope. This reduces the potential for damage and makes systems easier to maintain.

- More Test Reliability
	- Improved test reliability due to the bite-size and specific changes introduced to the system, which allows for more accurate positive and negative tests to be conducted. This can be considered as *continuous reliability* and because of this, stakeholders will know that quality is always being considered throughout the development process and assures their investments are worthwhile.

[source](https://katalon.com/resources-center/blog/benefits-continuous-integration-delivery)

2. **What is the difference between Continuous Delivery and Continuous Deployment?**

- Continuous Delivery 
	- The practice of building, testing, and delivering improvements to software code. This can be simplified as, though you have automated testing, the release process is also automated, and any deployment can occur at any time with just one click of a button
	- Gives you the power to decide whether to make the releases daily, weekly, or whenever the business requires it. The maximum benefits of Continuous Delivery can only be yielded if they release small batches, which are easy to troubleshoot if any errors occur.

- Continous Deployment
	- When the step of Continuous Delivery is extended, it results in the phase of Continuous Deployment. This is the final stage in the pipeline that refers to the automatic releasing of any developer changes from the repository to the production. 
	- This ensures that any change that passes through the stages of production is released to the end-users. There is absolutely no way other than any failure in the test that may stop the deployment of new changes to the output. This step is a great way to speed up the feedback loop with customers and is free from human intervention.

[source](https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/devops-tutorial/continuous-delivery-and-continuous-deployment#:~:text=Continuous%20Delivery%20is%20a%20software,changes%20into%20the%20production%20environment.)

3. **Explain how GitHub fits into this process assuming the listener comes from a non-technical background**

If you've ever worked a job in retail, customer service, food service, etc. then you may have had to help take inventory or maybe verify the cash in the nightly deposit. Imagine you had a robot that could test whether or not your inventory count was correct. Or maybe an even more grounded analogy would be using a money counter machine to make sure that the amount of physical dollars in the deposit matches what your store's system says. These 'tests' ensure that everything is correct before you sign off on inventory or make the nightly deposit.

That's essentially what GitHub is when it comes to testing our code. It ensures that our code is working as intended before it's pushed to production and able to be used by the user.

## Things I Want To Know More About
n/a