# Application State with Redux

1. **What is the first principle of Redux**
- No matter how simple or complex your application is, you need to represent the whole application as a single JavaScript object.

2. **What is a store and what do we use our reducers for within that store?**
- The store is what holds the application 'state'. A bank vault is to the bank what the Redux Store is to Redux. [source](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/understanding-redux-the-worlds-easiest-guide-to-beginning-redux-c695f45546f6)
- We use our reducers as a handler for our dispatched actions. In other words, an `action` is dispatched and our reducers take that action and determine how to manipulate/modify the state.
The cashier is to the bank what the reducer is to Redux. [source](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/understanding-redux-the-worlds-easiest-guide-to-beginning-redux-c695f45546f6)

3. **Name three Redux store methods given to us by createStore and describe their use.**
- `getState()` : retrieves the current state of a store
- `dispatch()` : emits an action which will modify the state
- `subscribe()` : registers a callback function that is called anytime an action is dispatched

4. **Explain to a non-technical recruiter what combineReducers() does and why it is useful.**
- Imagine you have a bunch of touch-screens installed in various places across your house. You have one in the kitchen that controls the kitchen lights and for whatever reason it can also turn your appliances on and off. There's another one in the living room and you can control the lights, your sound system, and your heating. Let's say theres also a third one somewhere that controls your security system. But what if you wanted to not have to walk from your kitchen to your living room to change the music? Or if you wanted to turn the alarm on while you're already laying in bed? Oh, well what do you know! I have this fancy little app on my phone that can control all of these things. Now, I can dim the kitchen lights, change the music, and set my alarm all from one device and I don't have to use three separate touch-screens installed across the house.
- That is essentially what `combineReducers()` does. It consolidates all of these smaller 'systems' into one thing so that you can modify/manipulate the various state properties of your application from one place.