# AWS S3 and Lambda

## [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/)

1. **What is Amazon S3?** An object storage service built to store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere. Essentially a file storage system in the cloud.

2. **Name some use cases for Amazon S3.** Big data analytics, AI, ML, and high performance computing applications

3. **Name some benefits of using Amazon S3.** Customers of all sized and industries can store and protect any aount of data for virtually any use case with cost-effective storage classes and easy-to-use management features.

## [AWS Lambda Basics](https://www.serverless.com/aws-lambda)

1. **What is AWS Lambda?** AWS Lambda is a serverless computing service provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS)

2. **Name some use cases for AWS Lambdas.** Scalable APIs and data processing

3. **Describe “serverless” to a non-technical friend.** "Serverless" just refers to not having to maintain your own servers in order to run (a thing - in this case, lambda functions). Think of it kind of like Spotify or Apple Music - you don't have to maintain a library of music anymore because it's all saved somewhere else that you can access whenever you need to. In regards to Lambda functions, you don't need to maintain a server that listens for certain events to happen, instead everything is managed by AWS and therefore you stay "serverless".

## [CDN](https://cyberhoot.com/cybrary/content-delivery-network-cdn/)

1. **What is a CDN?** A geographically distributed group of servers that work together to provide fast delivery of Internet content. A CDN allows for the fast transfer of data needed for loading Internet content including HTML pages, javascript files, stylesheets, images, and videos.

2. **How does a CDN work with relation to the website visitor?** The CDN copies the pages of a website to a network of servers that are spread out geographically different locations, caching the contents of the page. When a user requests a webpage that is part of a content delivery network, the CDN will redirect the request from the originating site’s server to a server in the CDN that is closest to the user and deliver the cached content. CDNs will also communicate with the originating server to deliver any content that has not been previously cached.

3. **What are the benefits of employing a CDN?** Employing a CDN doesn’t only speed up the delivery of Internet content, it helps protect your website against certain forms of cyber attacks, such as Denial of Service attacks. It protects against these threats because CDNs allow for the handling of more traffic and withstanding hardware failure better than many origin servers. 