# Context API

## [Choosing the State Structure](https://react.dev/learn/choosing-the-state-structure)

1. **Summarize the five principles for structuring state.**
- *Group related state.* If you always update two or more state variables at the same time, consider merging them into a single state variable.
- *Avoid contradictions in state.* When the state is structured in a way that several pieces of state may contradict and “disagree” with each other, you leave room for mistakes. Try to avoid this.

- *Avoid redundant state.* If you can calculate some information from the component’s props or its existing state variables during rendering, you should not put that information into that component’s state.

- *Avoid duplication in state.* When the same data is duplicated between multiple state variables, or within nested objects, it is difficult to keep them in sync. Reduce duplication when you can.

- *Avoid deeply nested state.* Deeply hierarchical state is not very convenient to update. When possible, prefer to structure state in a flat way.

## [Passing State Deeply with Context](https://react.dev/learn/passing-data-deeply-with-context)

1. **What problem do Contexts aim to solve?**
- The problem of "prop drilling". When we need to pass data from a parent component to a child component that is multiple layers deep - it can become very verbose and inconvenient. `Context` allows a parent component to make certain data available to any child component.

2. **What is one technique to try before useContext?**
- Try just the standard approach of passing props from component to child component - this can seem repetitive but it can make it easier to trace where your data/props are coming from.
- Extract components and pass JSX as children to them. For example, maybe you pass data props like `posts` to visual components that don’t use them directly, like `<Layout posts={posts} />`. Instead, make Layout take children as a prop, and render `<Layout><Posts posts={posts} /></Layout>`. This reduces the number of layers between the component specifying the data and the one that needs it. [source](https://react.dev/learn/passing-data-deeply-with-context#before-you-use-context)

3. **What hook complements useContext for complex applications?**
- `useReducer`. As your app grows, you might end up with a lot of state closer to the top of your app. Many distant components below may want to change it. It is common to use a reducer together with context to manage complex state and pass it down to distant components without too much hassle. [source](https://react.dev/learn/passing-data-deeply-with-context#use-cases-for-context)

## Things I Want To Know More About
- n/a