# Access Control(ACL)

## [5 Steps to RBAC](https://www.csoonline.com/article/3060780/security/5-steps-to-simple-role-based-access-control.html)

1. **What is Role Based Access Control (RBAC) and why do we care?**
- RBAC is the idea of assigning users different roles which dictates what kind of permissions they have and what kind of resources they can access.

2. **Describe a Role/Permission heirarchy that you might implement using RBAC.**
- A simple hierarchy would be something like Users > Moderators > Administrators on a forum / website.
  - Users would have the lowest level of access to the resources. Maybe they can access/read discussion forums, post to their own replies/threads, and customize their profiles. As a user, they could do things like edit &/o delete their own posts but they can't edit other user's posts.
  - Moderators would have even more expanded access to resources on the website. Maybe they are able to edit &/o delete Users posts or restrict certain resources from certain users (e.g. banning a user from a specific forum). 
  - Administrators would be the highest step up, where they have access to make changes to the actual website. They can add new pages, alter the content on the homepage, give moderator permissions to other users, or ban a user's account from being able to login or access any resources at all.

3. **What approach might you take to implement RBAC?**
  - First, you need to determine what resources are going to need role-based access.
  - Next, determine the role hierarchy you will need. Are users and admins enough? Try to keep the roles simple and stratified/layered as possible.
  - Now, determine which users need to be given which roles. A regular employee probably just needs basic access but someone like a manager or the CEO will need more permissions
  - Resist the urge to make small one-off changes for individual employees with unusual needs. This can potentially cause the structure of your RBAC system to unravel quickly.
  - Periodically audit and review the roles, the people assigned to them, and the access permitted for each.

## [RBAC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Role-based_access_control)

1. **If Authentication is “you are who you say you are,” what is Authorization?**
- If authentication verifies your identity, authorization determines what kind of access you have to specific resources.

2. **Name three primary rules defined for RBAC.**
- Role Assignment
  - A subject can exercise a permission only if they have been assigned a role
- Role Authorization
  - A subject's active role must be authorized. Combined with rule 1 above, this ensures that users can take on only roles for which they are authorized.
- Permission Authorization
  - A subject can exercise a permission only if the permission is authorized for the subject's active role. Combined with the previous rules, this ensures that users can exercise only permissions for which they are authorized.

3. **Describe RBAC to a non-technical friend.**
- RBAC is just like any hierarchy / permissions system that you've probably encountered in real life. Think of a school where you have teachers and students. The students have access to the classrooms, the gym, the cafeteria, etc. But the teachers have access to certain things that students dont - they can alter student's grades, the can park in the teacher's parking lot, or take a break in the teacher's lounge.

## [RBAC Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C4NP8Eon3cA)

1. **What Are access rights Associated with? The User? or The Role? Explain.**
- Access rights are associated with the role

2. **Access Rights, or Authorization, is activated after a user successfully does what?**
- They are activated after a user has successfully authenticated themselves

3. **Explain how RBAC might benefit a business.**
- Policies don't need to be updated when a certain person with a role leaves the organization
- New employees can be given a role and be able to seamlessly integrate into the team/org
- We only want to be using the "lowest" role in the hierarchy that we need to at any given time, otherwise known as 'least privilege'. If a user *has* admin role privilege but onl needs user role privileges for a task, then they only need to be using the user role at that given time. When they need admin privileges to access other resources for a separate task, then the role can switch.

## Reflection

1. **What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?**
- Be able to implement authentication & authorization using an SQL databases that store user information, generate JWTs, and use RBAC methodology to handle roles/permissions.

## Things I Want to Know More About
- Are roles stored in a SQL database? If so, would you list all the different permissions available to a role within the table? Or would you just do some kind of if statement, like `if (user.roles.includes('aRole')) {//code}` , in order to give a user access to certain things?