# Component Based UI

## [React Quick Start](https://react.dev/learn)

1. What are the building blocks of a React app?
- React components

2. What is the difference between an HTML element and a React component?
- HTML elements are strictly written with HTML while React components are written in JSX which is essentially a mix of HTML and JavaScript.

3. What is JSX and why do we use it?
- JSX stands for JavaScript XML and we use it because of its convenience (being able to combine HTML and JavaScript in one element as opposed to having to have a separate HTML document and JavaScript modules/scripts)

4. Describe the process of embedding JavaScript expressions in JSX.
- Whenever you want to write JavaScript expressions within JSX you must wrap the JavaScript inside of curly braces which allows you to 'escape back' into JavaScript.

5. Does React or JSX have any special features for iteration or conditional logic?
- Yes we can use `if/else` statements as well as the ternary operator `?` to conditionally display components 

6. How does React know to respond to a user’s inputs?
- By using events & event handlers

7. What word indicates that a React component manages data with a Hook?
- `use`, i.e. `useState` or `useEffect`

8. How can two react components share data?
- By passing `state` &/o `props` between components

## [Render and Commit](https://react.dev/learn/render-and-commit)

1. What are the three steps of refreshing a React UI?
-  Triggering, Rendering, and Commiting

2. How do you trigger updates to a component after the initial render?
- By updating it's state

3. Does React recreate DOM nodes on every rerender?
- React will only recreate DOM nodes if there has been a change to the node's state &/o props

4. After React has updated the DOM, what still needs to happen before the user sees the change?
- The browser needs to render the information to the screen, or 'paint' it to the screen.

## [Additional Questions]

1. Note the naming conventions in the Airbnb React/JSX Style Guide. What pattern(s) do you see?
- Use PascalCasing when defining components but use camelCasing when you instantiate them
- Components should be the same name as the filename unless its the root component of a directory in which case `index.jsx` should be the filename and the directory name should be the component name.
-  Use a composite of the higher-order component’s name and the passed-in component’s name as the `displayName` on the generated component.
- Avoid using DOM component prop names.

2. Looking ahead at this module’s course schedule, What do you look forward to learning?
- Looking forward to learning how to use the effect hook and reducer hoook. I have a project I've been working on that uses class components and also uses custom logic in `componentDidMount` and `componentDidUpdate` for some components but from my understanding these methods don't work with functional components so I'm interested to learn how to go about implementing similar logic using hooks instead.

3. What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?
- I really want to learn how to set up Authorization via React because I've been trying to implement Auth0 with my personal project and it's been giving me some issues.