# Express REST API

## ES6 Classes - Review

1. **Classes are a template for creating ____**
- Objects

2. **Can a class declaration be hoisted?**
- No

3. **How would you describe a constructor and contextual "this" to a non-technical friend?**
- If classes are templates for creating objects, then a constructor is just the thing that actually assembles the thing we want to create. Our template shows that there are plans for the car to have some doors, some wheels, an engine, etc. The object is the whole, finished, car itself - but the constructor is what actually assembles/creates the car.
- The contextual `this` is just basically a way to specify which individual object (read: car) that we're talking about at. Imagine you and a friend are standing in front of 5 identical cars - same color, make, model, year, etc. - and your friend goes "I like this one!", but they're not gesturing towards or looking at any car in particular. You'd probably be pretty confused; Which car are they talking about? But if they said "I like this one!" and they point at a specific car, now you know exactly which car they're talking about. The contextual `this` is essentially a way for a developer to allow an object to point at itself so that the computer knows exactly what object we're referencing when we want to do something with it.

## Using Express Routing

1. **Within Express, what does routing refer to?**
- Routing refers to how endpoints respond to requests.

2. **What is the difference between a route path and a route method?**
- Route Paths: The actual endpoints that we hit when we make a request
- Route Methods: The type of request we're making to the endpoint/path, such as POST, GET, PUT, and DELETE which corresponds to the CRUD (principles?) of "Create, Read, Update, Delete"

3. **When is it appropriate to add `next` as a parameter to a route handler and what must you do if `next` has been passed to your middleware as a parameter?**
- We add `next` to a route handler when we want pass the request off to another callback functions/middlewares.
- If `next` has been passed to your middleware as a parameter it must be called/invoked

## Express Routing

1. **What is an Express Router?**
-  It is a mini express application without all the bells and whistles of an express application, just the routing stuff.

2. **By what mean do we initialize `express.Router()` in an express server?**
- By declaring a variable and setting it's value to `express.Router()`

3. **What do we use route middleware for?**
- Route middleware is used to accomplish a task before a request is processed

## Things I Want To Know More About
- What would be the difference between chaining `.then()`s and manipulating the request/response data within a promise chain vs. using middlewares and `next()`s to manipulate the data?


# Reflection

1. What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?
- I want to fully understand Big O because that seems like a pretty important concept to know and it seems like it's pretty math-heavy.
- I want to more fully understand / describe how Stacks and Queues work. I feel like I have a high-level understanding of it but I think I just need more exposure to it so that it really cements itself into my brain.
- I want to know more about Authentication, Authorization, and AWS and the best practices for how to implement all of that into an app.
- I also want to be able to create React apps using functional components and hooks since that's the most modern way of using React.

