# API Integration

## [API Server Build](https://codefellows.github.io/code-401-javascript-guide/curriculum/apps-and-libraries/api-server/)

1. **Explain the different between a query string parameter and a path parameter.** 
- A *path parameter* are essentially variables inside of a url (e.g. `https://www.url.com/endpoint/pathparameter`). These parameters must be substitued with an actual value when the client makes an API call - whereas a *query string parameter* are optional/additional search parameters that are represented by `key:value` pairs and appear after the url preceeded by a question mark (`?`), with each query string separated by ampersands(`&`) (e.g. `https:://www.url/com/endpoint2?query=string&key=value`) [source](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/describing-parameters/#:~:text=0%3B%20csrftoken%3DBUSe35dohU3O1MZvDCU-,Path%20Parameters,denoted%20with%20curly%20braces%20%7B%20%7D%20.)

2. **What would our API URL with a path id parameter be given the following information:**
  ```
  Domain: http://our-site.com
  v3
  model name: stuff
  id: things
  ```
  - http://our-site.com/v3/stuff/things

3. **We have created a dynamic API with an “interface”. Describe how that interface works to a non-technical friend.**
- Imagine you're at some burger spot and they have no waiters or cashiers - just a touch screen menu. That touch screen menu is set up to create your order by adding whole items, editing them with (i.e. removing pickles, adding extra hot sauce), removing whole items (i.e. you accidentally add the wrong thing and want to remove it from your order), and then sending that order in so that the cooks in the back can proceed to make it. This is esentially an 'interface' in regards to an API. It's a meticulously crafted system that allows you make requests to a server that's set up in a way that you can make the same requests for various different resourced. (i.e. you can not only add/edit/remove a burger, you can do all that fries, drinks, sides, etc.)

## [Auth Server Build](https://codefellows.github.io/code-401-javascript-guide/curriculum/apps-and-libraries/auth-server/)

1. **Describe how you would use middleware to implement basic and bearer auth.**
- Basic Auth middleware would be used in the event that a user is signing in for the first time whereas bearer auth would be used in the event that a user is already "signed in" but server still needs to authenticate the token to double check and make sure everything is OK.
- Basic Auth would send a post request with the `Basic` header with a `username` and `password` and upon successful authentication would return a JSON web token.
- Bearer Auth would send a post request with the `Bearer` header any time the user tried to access a resource that was protected by RBAC. It takes the token that the user has client side, and sends it to the server to be authenticated. If it is a valid token, then user can access that protected resource.

2. **Describe the handshake necessary to implement OAuth.**
- Assuming we have a valid account with some service like Google or Github & that we are logged in with that service:,
  1.  The user attempts to log in / sign up with a service/app
  2.  The app redirects the user to a URL where they can choose to authenticate using their Google or Github credentials
  3. After Google / Github authenticates them on THEIR side, Google / Github sends a response to the app with that authenticated information.
  4. The app uses the authenticate information from Google / Github to request an access token.
  5. Google / Github will respond with the access token if the authentication information is valid
  6. The access token is used to access the user's data from Google / Github without requiring the user to 'sign up / log in' with the app.

3. **Describe how Role Based Access Control works to a non-technical friend.**
- RBAC can be seen in everyday life. Think of any generic workplace - you have employees, managers, HR reps, etc. Employees only have access to certain resources / tools. They can complete work at their own workstation but they can do much outside of that. Managers have a little bit more access to the resources - they oversee employees, assign tasks, and can hire/fire people. HR reps also have access to certain resources / tools that employees and managers do not. They oversee things like payroll and ethical dilemmas and are able to reprimand employees and managers alike if they step out of line. In the context of software development, RBAC gives users certain permissions that dictate wether or not they are allowed to access certain resources on a website. Maybe in the past you've ran in to some kind of issue on your PC and you tried to google how to resolve it and you see something like "do this thing in administrator mode" - in this case administrator is referring to a role that grants full access to any/all permissions you might need.

