# Message Queues

## [Socket.io Chat Example](https://socket.io/get-started/chat/)

1. **Explain to a non-technical recruiter what the Chat Example (above) does.**
- This is creating a very rudimentary instant-messaging chat room. It allows multiple users to connect to a room and lets them send messages to a server, which then relays those messages to the other people in the chat room.

2. **What proof of life are we getting on the backend from the above app?**
- A console.log that says the server is up & listening on a port
- A console.log that tells us if a user connects &/o disconnects


3. **Socket.IO gives us the i0.emit() method to send an event to everyone. What flag would you use if you want to send a message to everyone except for a certain emitting socket?**
- `broadcast`, e.g. `io.broadcast.emit('hello world')`

## [Rooms](https://socket.io/docs/v4/rooms)

1. **What is a room and how might a room be useful?**
- A room is a contained area where multiple clients can connect to and can be useful when we want to separate interactivity between multiple groups connected to the same server. It's just like having multiple 'conference rooms' in an office space. If everyone was in one giant open floor, it would get noisy and you would hear everyone/everything. By joining a room, you & other coworkers can isolate themselves so that only your group can communicate to each other without having to see/hear everything going on in the office.

2. **How do you join a room?**
- `socket.join('roomName')`

3. **How do you leave a room?**
- `socket.leave('roomName')`

## [Namespaces](https://socket.io/docs/v4/namespaces/)

1. **What is a Namespace and what does it allow you to do?**
- A Namespace is a communication channel that allows you to split the logic of your application over a single shared connection (also called "multiplexing").

2. **Each namespace potentially has its own what? (hint: 3 things)**
- Event handlers, rooms, & middlewares

3. **Discuss a possible use case for separate namespaces**
- You want to create a private area that only authorized users have access to

- You want to create an area for each (x) depending on your needs 

## Reflection

1. What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?
- I still want to create a simple chat app using socket.io but maybe now I could think about adding some kind of private-messaging system or giving the user the ability to create their own `room` and invite other users to join it.